docs/general/tutorials/wallets/wallets.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: Wallets
displayed_sidebar: generalSidebar
---

In this section, you will find Tutorials for Wallets that support Conflux Network

:::tip

Wallets supported depend on the Space you plan to interact with.

:::

## Supported Wallets

| Wallet | Core Space Supported | eSpace Supported |
| -------- | -------- | --------| 
| [Fluent](./fluent) | ✅ | ✅ |
| [Ledger](./ledger) | ✅ | ✅ |
| [MetaMask](../../../espace/UserGuide.md)| ❌ | ✅ |
| [OKX Web3](https://www.okx.com/web3)| ❌ | ✅ |
| [OneKey](https://onekey.so/download)| ✅ | ✅ |


For more information about each wallet, please navigate to the corresponding section.

If you want to learn more about Conflux supporting wallets, please checkout the following video:

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';


<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="youtube" label="Conflux Wallets Walkthrough">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Aur7dF1dgG8?si=gniTiB6DethdLixG" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>


```mdx-code-block
import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';

<DocCardList />
```

Commit message:

Add Security Advice for Wallet Backup (#727)
* add backup-wallet.md

* update the content of backup wallet

* fix title error

* updated the content

* add links in wallet page

docs/general/tutorials/wallets/wallets.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: Wallets
displayed_sidebar: generalSidebar
---

In this section, you will find Tutorials for Wallets that support Conflux Network

:::tip

Wallets supported depend on the Space you plan to interact with.

:::

## Supported Wallets

| Wallet                                   | Core Space Supported | eSpace Supported |
| ---------------------------------------- | -------------------- | ---------------- |
| [Fluent](./fluent)                       | ✅                   | ✅               |
| [Ledger](./ledger)                       | ✅                   | ✅               |
| [MetaMask](../../../espace/UserGuide.md) | ❌                   | ✅               |
| [OKX Web3](https://www.okx.com/web3)     | ❌                   | ✅               |
| [OneKey](https://onekey.so/download)     | ✅                   | ✅               |

For more information about each wallet, please navigate to the corresponding section.

For the security of your wallet, you can also read the articles below.

- [Security Advice for Creating a Wallet](/docs/general/blockchain-security/create-wallet)
- [Security Advice for Wallet Backup](/docs/general/blockchain-security/backup-wallet)

If you want to learn more about Conflux supporting wallets, please checkout the following video:

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="youtube" label="Conflux Wallets Walkthrough">
    <iframe
      width="560"
      height="315"
      src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Aur7dF1dgG8?si=gniTiB6DethdLixG"
      title="YouTube video player"
      frameborder="0"
      allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share"
      allowfullscreen
    ></iframe>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

```mdx-code-block
import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';

<DocCardList />
```
