README.md, before:

# Conflux Developer Portal

This repo provides documents for [conflux-rust](https://github.com/Conflux-Chain/conflux-rust).

Deployments:

- [https://doc.confluxnetwork.org/](https://doc.confluxnetwork.org/)
- [https://www.confluxdocs.com/](https://www.confluxdocs.com/)

## Repo Structure

- docs: contains the original doc contents (in English)
  - docs/templates: special folder served as template for reuse, aimed for creating similar articles in eSpace and bSpace. The [eSpace User Guide](./docs/espace/UserGuide.md) serves as an example to show how to replace texts, links and images.
- i18n: contains the localized doc contents. Note: the contents are added by the translation platform Crowdin. NEVER directly edit the content in this file to edit the translation
- scripts: contains scripts used for automation
- docusaurus.config.js: the configuration file for docusaurus
- sidebar.js: the sidebar configuration, used by docusaurus.config.js

## Contributing

### How to Contribute

We welcome contributions in a variety of forms, including but not limited to:

1. Pointing out a mistake/typo and (optionally) providing a solution
2. Providing translation
3. Creating or improving diagrams, charts, or visual aids
4. Suggesting improvements to the documentation structure or organization
5. Writing or updating a tutorial or guide
6. Creating or updating code samples, examples, or demos
7. Polishing or improving document writing

To make a contribution, please take one of the following actions:

- **Report an Issue**: If you spot a problem or is willing to suggest improvements, [create an issue](./docs/general/CONTRIBUTING.md#create-an-issue) to let us know.
- **Submit Changes**: For direct contributions to content, [create a pull request](./docs/general/CONTRIBUTING.md#create-a-pull-request).
- **Help with Translation**: To contribute translations, please follow our [translation guidelines](./docs/general/CONTRIBUTING.md#provide-translation).

### Contributor POAPs

We issue poaps for document contributors every 3 months. As a token of appreciation, contributors can claim [FansCoin (FC)](https://confluxscan.io/token/cfx:achc8nxj7r451c223m18w2dwjnmhkd6rxawrvkvsy2) rewards for each POAP they own.

Refer to [CONTRIBUTING](./docs/general/CONTRIBUTING.md) for how to contribute and how the poap issuing rule works.

Commit message:

Rewards guidelines (#383)
* draft for rewards

* Rewards guideine settled as well as relating contributing page changes

* Update reward-guidelines.md

README.md, after:

# Conflux Developer Portal

This repo provides documents for [conflux-rust](https://github.com/Conflux-Chain/conflux-rust).

Deployments:

- [https://doc.confluxnetwork.org/](https://doc.confluxnetwork.org/)
- [https://www.confluxdocs.com/](https://www.confluxdocs.com/)

## Repo Structure

- docs: contains the original doc contents (in English)
  - docs/templates: special folder served as template for reuse, aimed for creating similar articles in eSpace and bSpace. The [eSpace User Guide](./docs/espace/UserGuide.md) serves as an example to show how to replace texts, links and images.
- i18n: contains the localized doc contents. Note: the contents are added by the translation platform Crowdin. NEVER directly edit the content in this file to edit the translation
- scripts: contains scripts used for automation
- docusaurus.config.js: the configuration file for docusaurus
- sidebar.js: the sidebar configuration, used by docusaurus.config.js

## Contributing

### [How to Contribute](./docs/general/CONTRIBUTING/how-to-contribute.md)

We welcome contributions in a variety of forms, including but not limited to:

1. Pointing out a mistake/typo and (optionally) providing a solution
2. Providing translation
3. Creating or improving diagrams, charts, or visual aids
4. Suggesting improvements to the documentation structure or organization
5. Writing or updating a tutorial or guide
6. Creating or updating code samples, examples, or demos
7. Polishing or improving document writing

To make a contribution, please take one of the following actions:

- **Report an Issue**: If you spot a problem or is willing to suggest improvements, [create an issue](./docs/general/CONTRIBUTING/how-to-contribute.md#create-an-issue) to let us know. You can also directly submit the issue via our [Conflux Documentation Issue Form](https://forms.office.com/r/pKVBywZwLY).
- **Submit Changes**: For direct contributions to content, [create a pull request](./docs/general/CONTRIBUTING/how-to-contribute.md#create-a-pull-request).
- **Help with Translation**: To contribute translations, please follow our [translation guidelines](./docs/general/CONTRIBUTING/how-to-contribute.md#provide-translation).

### Contributor Rewards and POAPs

We distribute [FansCoin (FC)](https://confluxscan.io/token/cfx:achc8nxj7r451c223m18w2dwjnmhkd6rxawrvkvsy2) rewards and issue POAPs for our contributor as appreciation. For the [reward guidelines](./docs/general/CONTRIBUTING/reward-guidelines.md) and [contributors POAPs](./docs/general/CONTRIBUTING/contributor-poaps.md) to learn how the tokens are distributed.
