- - -
displayed_sidebar: generalSidebar
- - -
# v2.0

In the Hydra hardfork (v2.0) Conflux will introduce serveral big upgrades through 8 CIPs (Conflux improvement proposal).

## PoS

Through [CIP-43](https://github.com/Conflux-Chain/CIPs/blob/master/CIPs/cip-43.md) Hydra has introduced a PoS system to improve the finality of the whole Network. CFX holders can stake their CFX to PoS to protect high-value transactions and also earn CFX rewards of participating the PoS. For detail information, check [PoS Overview](../conflux-basics/consensus-mechanisms/proof-of-stake/pos_overview.md) page.

## Conflux eSpace

The CIP-90 has introduced a new fully EVM-compatible space. The new space is called eSpace, and the current space is called Core Space. The eSpace follows the same rule as EVM and supports eth rpc like eth_getBalance, so the tools (web3.js, ethers.js, hardhat and so on) from ethereum ecosystem can be used on Conflux directly. Check [eSpace documentation](../../espace/Overview.md) for more info.

## New Added InternalContracts

Hydra hardfork has intoduced three new [InternalContracts](../../core/core-space-basics/internal-contracts/internal-contracts.mdx):

* `ConfluxContext` (CIP-64)
* `PoSRegister` (CIP-43)
* `CrossSpaceCall` (CIP-90)

## RPC changes

### cfx namespace RPC change

* New added methods: [`cfx_getPoSRewardByEpoch`](../../core/build/json-rpc/cfx-namespace.md#cfx_getposrewardbyepoch), `cfx_openedMethodGroups`, [`cfx_getPoSEconomics`](../../core/build/json-rpc/cfx-namespace.md#cfx_getposeconomics).
* New added EpochNumber tag: `latest_finalized` indicating latest finalized (by PoS) epoch.
* `cfx_getStatus` reponse have two new field: `latestFinalized`, `ethereumSpaceChainId`
* Block header new added field: `posReference` which is the latest pos blockHash when the PoW block is mined.
* Block header's `custom` field's type has changed from array of `number array` to array of `hex string`.

```js
// before
custom: [[1, 2]]
// after 
custom: ["0x12"]
```

**Note: CIP-90 will break some block field's verifiability for example: hash**

### trace RPC breaking change

* `trace` RPC methods have some [big changes](../../core/build/json-rpc/trace-namespace.md#v20-trace-breaking-change)

### New added namespace

* [`txpool`](../../core/build/json-rpc/txpool-namespace.md)
* [`pos`](../../core/build/json-rpc/pos-namespace.md)

### eSpace eth RPC

The eSpace has introduced the `eth` namespace RPC, check the [RPC compatibility doc](../../espace/build/jsonrpc-compatibility.md) for details

## Conflux-rust config file

The mainnet config file has been renamed from `tethys.toml` to `hydra.toml`, the `bootnodes` has changed and several options are added:

* `jsonrpc_http_eth_port = 8545`
* `jsonrpc_ws_eth_port = 8546`
* `public_evm_rpc_apis = "evm"`
* `evm_chain_id = 1030`

## Mainnet Upgrade schedule

1. Conflux client program need to be updated before `Epoch Number reaches 36935000` or `Block Number reaches 92060600` (around 10:00 Feb.23th, 2022(GMT+8))
2. The PoS registration start at `Block Number 92060600` (around Feb.23th at 12:00)
3. The PoS registration close at `Block Number 92751800` (around Feb.25th at 12:00)
4. The deadline for adding pos_config is before `Epoch Number reaches 37400000` (around Feb.28th 12:00). Hardfork upgrade completed at this time.

## Testnet Upgrade schedule

1. Conflux client program need to be updated before `Epoch Number reaches 55095000` or `Block Number reaches 68845000` (around 10:00 Dec.9th, 2021(GMT+8))
2. The PoS registration start at `Block Number 68845000` (around Dec.9th at 10:00)
3. The PoS registration close at `Block Number 69245000` (around Dec.11 at 18:00)
4. The deadline for adding pos_config is before `Epoch Number reaches 55665000` (around Dec.13th 15:00). Hardfork upgrade completed at this time.

For detail infomation check [Conflux v2.0.0-testnet Hardfork Upgrade Announcement](https://forum.conflux.fun/t/conflux-v2-0-0-testnet-hardfork-upgrade-announcement/12556)

## Upgrade CIP list

The following is a brief introduction of these CIPs.

### CIP-43

[Detail link](https://github.com/Conflux-Chain/CIPs/blob/master/CIPs/cip-43.md)

In this [CIP](https://github.com/Conflux-Chain/CIPs/blob/master/CIPs/cip-43.md), we propose introducing finality to the Conflux chain via voting among staked CFX holders. This will increase the confidence of high-value transactions happening on Conflux in the future and protect Conflux against potential 51% attacks from PoW.

### CIP-64

[Detail link](https://github.com/Conflux-Chain/CIPs/blob/master/CIPs/cip-64.md)

Currently, transactions on Conflux have no direct access to the number of the epoch they are executed in. To maintain EVM compatibility, this CIP introduces a new internal contract that makes this information available to contracts.

### CIP-71

[Detail link](https://github.com/Conflux-Chain/CIPs/blob/master/CIPs/cip-71.md)

Fully disable the anti-reentrancy for their contract.

### CIP-76

[Detail link](https://github.com/Conflux-Chain/CIPs/blob/master/CIPs/cip-76.md)

We should remove VM-related constraints in syncing blocks, like requiring the transactions to have enough gas limit.

### CIP-78

[Detail link](https://github.com/Conflux-Chain/CIPs/blob/master/CIPs/cip-78.md)

Fix incorrect fields in transaction receipt.

### CIP-86

[Detail link](https://github.com/Conflux-Chain/CIPs/blob/master/CIPs/cip-86.md)

Reduce the period of difficulty adjustment and apply the simple moving average method.

### CIP-90

[Detail link](https://github.com/Conflux-Chain/CIPs/blob/master/CIPs/cip-90.md)

This CIP aims to introduce a new fully EVM-compatible space. The new space is called `eSpace`, and the current space is called `Core` Space. The eSpace follows the same rule as EVM and supports eth rpc like `eth_getBalance`, so the tools from ethereum economics can be used on Conflux directly.

### CIP-92

[Detail link](https://github.com/Conflux-Chain/CIPs/blob/master/CIPs/cip-92.md)

Enable Blake2F builtin function in [EIP-152](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-152.md).
