docs/overview/for-dapp-developers.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
title: For dApp Developers
keywords:
- dApp
---

Decentralized Applications, or dApps, represent the next generation of app development, leveraging blockchain's potential to offer a more transparent, secure, and user-centric digital experience. The key differentiation lies in the backend: instead of relying on centralized servers, dApps use blockchain as their backbone. As dApps allow for direct integration with users' wallets, they can facilitate seamless and trustless peer-to-peer interactions.

Each step of the journey to build a dApp offers unique considerations, insights, and challenges. Below are several sections with summarized descriptions to guide developers through a wealth of internal resources available:

## Basics for Conflux Development

|Title|Description|Key Subjects|
|---|---|---|
| **Getting Started on [Core Space](../core/getting-started/installing-a-wallet.md) & [eSpace](../espace/UserGuide.md)** | User guides for Conflux Core Space and Conflux eSpace | Wallet installation, Testnet faucet, User guide |
| **Network endpoints: [Core](../core/core-endpoints.md) & [eSpace](../espace/network-endpoints.md)** | Public network endpoints of Conflux Core Space and Conflux eSpace, enabling you to connect to blockchain via JSON-RPC | Chain id, Network endpoints |
| **SDKs or Tools for [Core Space](/docs/category/sdks-and-tools) & [eSpace](../espace/DeveloperQuickstart.md)** | SDKs and Tools to assist in building web3 applications | SDK, Toolchain, Hardhat |

## Become Acquainted With Smart Contracts

|Title|Description|Key Subjects|
|---|---|---|
| [**Introduction to Smart Contracts**](../general/conflux-basics/contracts.md)| An overview and basic introduction to smart contracts | Concept |
| [**Smart Contracts Development**](/docs/category/smart-contracts) | Basic understanding of how to develop smart contracts, including the smart contracts development workflow, elementary Solidity syntax, and prevalent token standards | Solidity, Token Standard |
|[**How to Deploy Contract on eSpace**](/docs/category/how-to-deploy-contract)|Guidelines on how to utilize build tools (like hardhat, remix) to deploy contracts in **Conflux eSpace** | Hardhat, Remix, Thirdweb  |

## Frontend Development

|Title|Description|Key Subjects|
|---|---|---|
| [**Fluent Integration**](../core/build/fluent.md)| Guidance on integrating Fluent wallet into your frontend | Wallet Connection, Fluent wallet |
| [**use-wallet**](../general/build/tools/use-wallet)| `use-wallet` is a front-end oriented wallet hooks library designed to provide swift development support for lightweight dapps. `use-wallet` is compatible with conflux chains and ethereum chains, with integration support for the React and Vue3 frameworks. | Wallet Connection, Fluent wallet, MetaMask, React, Vue3 |
|[**Scaffold Conflux**](../espace/tutorials/scaffoldCfx/scaffold.md)| Instructions for Scaffold Conflux, the adaptation of [Scaffold-ETH-2](https://scaffoldeth.io/) template, enabling you to deploy the contract on **Conflux eSpace** and utilize the components, integration of hardhat, and the swift deployment of Scaffold-ETH-2. | Scaffold, Hardhat, Conflux eSpace |

## Tools

|Title|Description|Key Subjects|
|---|---|---|
|[**IPFS Overview**](../general/build/nfts/ipfs.md) &<br/>[**Pinata Tutorial**](../general/build/nfts/pinata.md)|What IPFS is and how to "pin" files to IPFS using Pinata. Valuable for NFT development if you're looking to upload files to IPFS| NFT development, IPFS|

Commit message:

Add use-wallet sample projects (#585)

docs/overview/for-dapp-developers.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
title: For dApp Developers
keywords:
- dApp
---

Decentralized Applications, or dApps, represent the next generation of app development, leveraging blockchain's potential to offer a more transparent, secure, and user-centric digital experience. The key differentiation lies in the backend: instead of relying on centralized servers, dApps use blockchain as their backbone. As dApps allow for direct integration with users' wallets, they can facilitate seamless and trustless peer-to-peer interactions.

Each step of the journey to build a dApp offers unique considerations, insights, and challenges. Below are several sections with summarized descriptions to guide developers through a wealth of internal resources available:

## Basics for Conflux Development

|Title|Description|Key Subjects|
|---|---|---|
| **Getting Started on [Core Space](../core/getting-started/installing-a-wallet.md) & [eSpace](../espace/UserGuide.md)** | User guides for Conflux Core Space and Conflux eSpace | Wallet installation, Testnet faucet, User guide |
| **Network endpoints: [Core](../core/core-endpoints.md) & [eSpace](../espace/network-endpoints.md)** | Public network endpoints of Conflux Core Space and Conflux eSpace, enabling you to connect to blockchain via JSON-RPC | Chain id, Network endpoints |
| **SDKs or Tools for [Core Space](/docs/category/sdks-and-tools) & [eSpace](../espace/DeveloperQuickstart.md)** | SDKs and Tools to assist in building web3 applications | SDK, Toolchain, Hardhat |

## Become Acquainted With Smart Contracts

|Title|Description|Key Subjects|
|---|---|---|
| [**Introduction to Smart Contracts**](../general/conflux-basics/contracts.md)| An overview and basic introduction to smart contracts | Concept |
| [**Smart Contracts Development**](/docs/category/smart-contracts) | Basic understanding of how to develop smart contracts, including the smart contracts development workflow, elementary Solidity syntax, and prevalent token standards | Solidity, Token Standard |
|[**How to Deploy Contract on eSpace**](/docs/category/how-to-deploy-contract)|Guidelines on how to utilize build tools (like hardhat, remix) to deploy contracts in **Conflux eSpace** | Hardhat, Remix, Thirdweb  |

## Frontend Development

|Title|Description|Key Subjects|
|---|---|---|
| [**use-wallet**](../general/build/tools/use-wallet)| `use-wallet` is a front-end oriented wallet hooks library designed to provide swift development support for lightweight dapps. `use-wallet` is compatible with conflux chains and ethereum chains, with integration support for the React, Vue3 frameworks or pure js projects. Several sample projects is also provided to demonstrate how to use `use-wallet` in a minimal manner | Wallet Connection, Fluent wallet, MetaMask, React, Vue3 |
| [**Fluent Integration**](../core/build/fluent.md)| Guidance on integrating Fluent wallet into your frontend. Note: this article mainly focus on the low-level interfaces and we recommend using the `use-wallet` library for high-level APIs. | Wallet Connection, Fluent wallet |
|[**Scaffold Conflux**](../espace/tutorials/scaffoldCfx/scaffold.md)| Instructions for Scaffold Conflux, the adaptation of [Scaffold-ETH-2](https://scaffoldeth.io/) template, enabling you to deploy the contract on **Conflux eSpace** and utilize the components, integration of hardhat, and the swift deployment of Scaffold-ETH-2. | Scaffold, Hardhat, Conflux eSpace |

## Tools

|Title|Description|Key Subjects|
|---|---|---|
|[**IPFS Overview**](../general/build/nfts/ipfs.md) &<br/>[**Pinata Tutorial**](../general/build/nfts/pinata.md)|What IPFS is and how to "pin" files to IPFS using Pinata. Valuable for NFT development if you're looking to upload files to IPFS| NFT development, IPFS|
