docs/espace/build/infrastructure/RPC-Provider.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: RPC Providers
displayed_sidebar: eSpaceSidebar
description: Enterprise-grade providers offering access to Conflux.
keywords:
  - RPC Providers
  - Conflux eSpace
  - NOWNodes
  - Unifra
  - BlockPi
  - Blockchain-as-a-Service
  - API
  - Node Infrastructure
  - Mainnet
  - Testnet
  - Chain ID
  - RPC Endpoint
  - Explorer
  - Web3 Infrastructure
  - Fullnode RPC
  - Shared Nodes
  - Dedicated Nodes
  - Multi-chain
  - Scalability
  - Blockchain Access
  - Enterprise Solutions
  - Infura
  - Alchemy
  - QuickNode
tags: [RPC Providers]
 
---

Conflux eSpace also offers its own RPC Providers, similar to those like Infura, Alchemy, and QuickNode. These can be utilized to connect to the Conflux eSpace network.

## [NOWNodes](https://nownodes.io/conflux)

NOWNodes is a blockchain-as-a-service solution that lets users get access to full Nodes and blockbook Explorers via API. The service provides a high-quality infrastructure that is quick, cost-effective, and reliable. They have Service Quality Standards available for all partners.
The users's nodes are under 24/7 surveillance - their availability and relevance are constantly being monitored. That’s way, their clients can enjoy the scalability for any large tasks and blazing fast API responses.

NOWNodes currently supports the Conflux eSpace network, and the eSpace node url is **https://cfx.nownodes.io**. Currently, it only provides Fullnode RPC services for the **Mainnet** network. In the future, support for the testnet will be added gradually. For the supported networks, please refer to [NOWNodes' node list](https://nownodes.io/nodes).

NOWNodes offers both Shared Nodes and Dedicated Nodes solution, along with free basic services and paid plans. For service pricing details, please refer to [NOWNodes' pricing list](https://nownodes.io/pricing). NOWNodes supports payments in Euros and cryptocurrencies.

For specific details and usage instructions, please visit the [NOWNodes official website](https://nownodes.io) and refer to the [documentation](https://documenter.getpostman.com/view/13630829/TVmFkLwy).

## [Unifra](https://unifra.io/)

[Unifra](https://unifra.io/) offers an open infrastructure accessible to everyone, providing reliable infrastructure services to all Web3 developers. Their node service already includes support for the Conflux eSpace network.
They offer a stable and user-friendly RPC service, which can be utilized to connect to the Conflux eSpace network.

Unifra also provides a free-to-use RPC endpoint:

Network  | Chain ID                | RPC Endpoint URL | Explorer
-------- | ----------------------- | ------------ |------------
[Mainnet](#mainnet) | 1030 (0x406) | https://conflux-espace-public.unifra.io | https://evm.confluxscan.io

You can also buy **a higher tier RPC service** from Unifra at it [console dashboard](https://console.unifra.io/).

## [BlockPi](https://blockpi.io/conflux)

BlockPi is a distributed multi-chain acceleration layer. Solving the RPC requests congestion problem with infinite scalability. Their plan is to build a fully scalable RPC service network. Their vision is to build an efficient and robust Web3 infrastructure.

Currently BlockPi support more than 30 chains, including Conflux eSpace network. They offer a stable and user-friendly RPC service, which can be utilized to connect to the Conflux eSpace network.

Network  | Chain ID                | RPC Endpoint URL | Explorer
-------- | ----------------------- | ------------ |------------
[Mainnet](#mainnet) | 1030 (0x406) | https://conflux-espace.blockpi.network/v1/rpc/public | https://evm.confluxscan.io

Check BlockPi's [documentation](https://docs.blockpi.io/) for more details on how to use their service.

## FAQs

### Does Infura, Alchemy, Quick, etc. support Conflux eSpace network?

Currently, they don't support Conflux eSpace network. But we are working with them to support Conflux eSpace network.

Commit message:

Update eSpace RPC-Provider.md - Add Validation Cloud (#822)
* Add Validation Cloud as eSpace RPC Provider

* Text update

docs/espace/build/infrastructure/RPC-Provider.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: RPC Providers
displayed_sidebar: eSpaceSidebar
description: Enterprise-grade providers offering access to Conflux.
keywords:
  - RPC Providers
  - Conflux eSpace
  - NOWNodes
  - Unifra
  - BlockPi
  - Blockchain-as-a-Service
  - API
  - Node Infrastructure
  - Mainnet
  - Testnet
  - Chain ID
  - RPC Endpoint
  - Explorer
  - Web3 Infrastructure
  - Fullnode RPC
  - Shared Nodes
  - Dedicated Nodes
  - Multi-chain
  - Scalability
  - Blockchain Access
  - Enterprise Solutions
  - Infura
  - Alchemy
  - QuickNode
tags: [RPC Providers]
 
---

Conflux has partnered with select RPC Providers and also offers its own, similar to those like Infura, Alchemy, and QuickNode. These can be utilized to connect to the Conflux eSpace network.

## [Validation Cloud](https://www.validationcloud.io/)

Validation Cloud offers an enterprise-grade web3 infrastructure platform covering RPC, Staking, and Data for 50+ leading Web3 blockchains and networks. We are committed to delivering the best performance, reliability and compliance to our users and partners. Validation Cloud is SOC2 Type II certified.

Validation Cloud’s RPC is ranked the fastest RPC globally by CompareNodes and our staking infrastructure handles over $1 Billion of staked assets under management (AUM).

For Conflux, Validation Cloud provides:

- RPC access to both **eSpace Mainnet** and **eSpace Testnet**. See our [documentation](https://docs.validationcloud.io/v1/conflux/overview) for the list of supported methods
- Self staking CFX via our Conflux validator and earn yield

You can sign up on a free tier, without a credit card, and start making RPC requests to Conflux today at [app.validationcloud.io/node](https://app.validationcloud.io/node).


## [NOWNodes](https://nownodes.io/conflux)

NOWNodes is a blockchain-as-a-service solution that lets users get access to full Nodes and blockbook Explorers via API. The service provides a high-quality infrastructure that is quick, cost-effective, and reliable. They have Service Quality Standards available for all partners.
The users's nodes are under 24/7 surveillance - their availability and relevance are constantly being monitored. That’s way, their clients can enjoy the scalability for any large tasks and blazing fast API responses.

NOWNodes currently supports the Conflux eSpace network, and the eSpace node url is **https://cfx.nownodes.io**. Currently, it only provides Fullnode RPC services for the **Mainnet** network. In the future, support for the testnet will be added gradually. For the supported networks, please refer to [NOWNodes' node list](https://nownodes.io/nodes).

NOWNodes offers both Shared Nodes and Dedicated Nodes solution, along with free basic services and paid plans. For service pricing details, please refer to [NOWNodes' pricing list](https://nownodes.io/pricing). NOWNodes supports payments in Euros and cryptocurrencies.

For specific details and usage instructions, please visit the [NOWNodes official website](https://nownodes.io) and refer to the [documentation](https://documenter.getpostman.com/view/13630829/TVmFkLwy).

## [Unifra](https://unifra.io/)

[Unifra](https://unifra.io/) offers an open infrastructure accessible to everyone, providing reliable infrastructure services to all Web3 developers. Their node service already includes support for the Conflux eSpace network.
They offer a stable and user-friendly RPC service, which can be utilized to connect to the Conflux eSpace network.

Unifra also provides a free-to-use RPC endpoint:

Network  | Chain ID                | RPC Endpoint URL | Explorer
-------- | ----------------------- | ------------ |------------
[Mainnet](#mainnet) | 1030 (0x406) | https://conflux-espace-public.unifra.io | https://evm.confluxscan.io

You can also buy **a higher tier RPC service** from Unifra at it [console dashboard](https://console.unifra.io/).

## [BlockPi](https://blockpi.io/conflux)

BlockPi is a distributed multi-chain acceleration layer. Solving the RPC requests congestion problem with infinite scalability. Their plan is to build a fully scalable RPC service network. Their vision is to build an efficient and robust Web3 infrastructure.

Currently BlockPi support more than 30 chains, including Conflux eSpace network. They offer a stable and user-friendly RPC service, which can be utilized to connect to the Conflux eSpace network.

Network  | Chain ID                | RPC Endpoint URL | Explorer
-------- | ----------------------- | ------------ |------------
[Mainnet](#mainnet) | 1030 (0x406) | https://conflux-espace.blockpi.network/v1/rpc/public | https://evm.confluxscan.io

Check BlockPi's [documentation](https://docs.blockpi.io/) for more details on how to use their service.

## FAQs

### Does Infura, Alchemy, Quick, etc. support Conflux eSpace network?

Currently, they don't support Conflux eSpace network. But we are working with them to support Conflux eSpace network.
