---
title: v2.4
displayed_sidebar: generalSidebar
toc_max_heading_level: 4
keywords:
  - CIPs
  - HardFork
---

| Key Information | Details |
| --- | --- |
| Version | Conflux v2.4.0 |
| Hardfork Introduced | Yes |
| Incompatible Changes | Yes (CIP-130, CIP-131, CIP-132, CIP-133, CIP-136, CIP-137, CIP-141, CIP-142, CIP-143, CIP-144, CIP-145, and CIP-1559) |

## Introduction

Conflux v2.4.0 is a hardfork introducing incompatible protocol changes including transaction fee changes, bug fixes, EVM Opcode changes

### Upgrade Overview

- Transaction fee model changes (CIP-1559 and CIP-137)
  - The concept "base fee per gas" and relating mechanisms are introduced.
  - Part of the base fee will be paid to miner, which ratio is determined by on-chain DAO vote with initial ratio set to 0.5.
- New transaction formats supported
  - **Core Space**: A Conflux verison [Typed Transaction Envelope](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2718) is implemented in the format of `b'cfx' || TransactionType || TransactionPayload`
  - **Core Spac**e: Type-1 transaction (Optional access list) **FORMAT** is defined and supported. **Note**: Conflux only provides limited support for access list field, resulting in solely format support without actual gas deduction.
  - **Core Space**: Type-2 transaction (dynamic fee) is defined and supported. Similar to EIP-1559, the type-2 transactions have field `maxFeePerGas` and `maxPriorityFeePerGas` in substitute of `gasPrice` field.
  - **eSpace**: [Typed Transaction Envelope](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2718) is supported.
  - **eSpace**: [Type-1 transaction (EIP-2930: Optional access lists)](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2930) **FORMAT** is supported. **Note**: Conflux only provides limited support for access list field, resulting in solely format support without actual gas deduction.
  - **eSpace**: Type-2 transaction format defined by [EIP-1559](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1559) is supported.
- Block gas limit changes:
  - The block gas limit doubles from previous `30,000,000` to `60,000,000`.
  - The mechanism of how core space and espace share the block gas limit changes: previously, the espace block will occupy core space block gas limit on specific heights, while after the hardfork, the core space and espace will have divided block gas limit budget.
  - The meaning of the block gas limit changes (got via `cfx_getBlockByHash` or other block query rpcs). It does not present the value of core space or espace block gas limit but derives them, with core space gas block limit calculated as `0.9 * block_gas_limit` and espace block gas limit calculated as `0.5 * block_gas_limit`.
- [RPC Changes](../../core/build/json-rpc/cfx-namespace.md)
  - Transaction Query RPCs (`cfx_getTransactionByHash`, `eth_getTransactionByHash`, etc): New fields `type`
  - Transaction Receipt Query RPCs (`cfx_getTransactionByHash`, `eth_getTransactionByHash`, etc)：New fields `type`, `effectiveGasPrice`, `burntGasFee`(NOTE: this fields is also added for espace transaction receipts)
  - `eth_sendTransaction`: New supported params: `type`, `accessList`, `maxPriorityPerGas`, `maxFeePerGas`
  - `cfx_getParamsFromVote`: New return field `baseFeeShareProp`
  - New RPCs
    - `cfx_maxPriorityFeePerGas`, `eth_maxPriorityFeePerGas`
    - `cfx_feeHistory`, `eth_feeHistory`
    - `cfx_getFeeBurnt`
- VM opcode changes
  - Enhances `BLOCKHASH` opcode capability.
  - Disables `BEGIN_SUB (0x5c)`, `RETURN_SUB (0x5d)`, and `JUMP_SUB (0x5e)` (CIP-141).
  - Introduces `MCOPY (0x5e)`
- New precompile contracts([CIP-144](#cip-144))
- Bug fixes

### CIP List

#### CIP-130

[CIP-130 Aligning Gas Limit with Transaction Size](https://github.com/Conflux-Chain/CIPs/blob/master/CIPs/cip-130.md) introduces a rule requiring a transaction's gas limit to be no less than 100 times the byte size of its call data to rectify a pricing imbalance and ensure fair resource allocation and efficient block utilization within the Conflux network.

#### CIP-131

[CIP-131 Retain Whitelist on Contract Deletion](https://github.com/Conflux-Chain/CIPs/blob/master/CIPs/cip-131.md) suggests removing the feature that clears the contract whitelist upon contract deletion, due to identified bugs and its limited use in the Conflux blockchain.

#### CIP-132

[CIP-132 Fix Static Context Check for Internal Contracts](https://github.com/Conflux-Chain/CIPs/blob/master/CIPs/cip-132.md) aims to fix a bug in Conflux's internal contracts by ensuring that functions without the `view` keyword correctly identify and reject calls originating from any static context.

#### CIP-133

[CIP-133 Enhanced Block Hash Query](https://github.com/Conflux-Chain/CIPs/blob/master/CIPs/cip-133.md) aims to improve the block hash query capability in the Conflux network by expanding the range to `65,536` blocks and addressing current limitations and inaccuracies in block hash retrieval.

#### CIP-136

[CIP-136 Increase the PoS Lock/Unlock/Retire Periods](https://github.com/Conflux-Chain/CIPs/blob/master/CIPs/cip-136.md) suggests increasing the PoS lock/unlock/retire periods back to their original values before CIP113, which are 13 days for locking, 1 day for unlocking, and 3 hours for force retiring.

#### CIP-1559

[CIP-1559 Fee market change for Conflux](https://github.com/Conflux-Chain/CIPs/blob/master/CIPs/cip-1559.md) aims to introduce a tailored version of Ethereum's EIP-1559 fee structure to the Conflux network, accounting for its unique dual space structure, tree-graph consensus mechanism, and random transaction packing.

#### CIP-137

[CIP-137 Base Fee Sharing in CIP-1559](https://github.com/Conflux-Chain/CIPs/blob/master/CIPs/cip-137.md) aims to adjust the transaction fee distribution under the Conflux CIP-1559 update, allowing a portion of the base fee to be shared with miners, as determined by the DAO vote.

#### CIP-141

[CIP-141 Disable Subroutine Opcodes](https://github.com/Conflux-Chain/CIPs/blob/master/CIPs/cip-141.md) proposes disabling the subroutine opcodes `BEGIN_SUB (0x5c)`, `RETURN_SUB (0x5d)`, and `JUMP_SUB (0x5e)` from the withdrawn EIP-2315 to align Conflux with Ethereum's opcode standards set by EIP-1153 and EIP-5656.

#### CIP-143

[CIP-143 MCOPY (0x5e) Opcode for Efficient Memory Copy](https://github.com/Conflux-Chain/CIPs/blob/master/CIPs/cip-143.md) proposes introducing the `MCOPY (0x5e)` opcode for efficient memory copy, aligning with Ethereum's EIP-5656 to ensure compatibility with the newest EVM standards.

#### CIP-144

[CIP-144 Point Evaluation Precompile from EIP-4844](https://github.com/Conflux-Chain/CIPs/blob/master/CIPs/cip-144.md) proposes introducing the KZG point evaluation precompiled contract from EIP-4844 to Conflux, enhancing compatibility with Ethereum's latest standards.

#### CIP-145

[CIP-145 Fix Receipts upon `NotEnoughBalance` Error](https://github.com/Conflux-Chain/CIPs/blob/master/CIPs/cip-145.md) proposes fixing the `gas_sponsored` field in transaction receipts when a transaction fails due to the sender not having enough balance, ensuring accurate reflection of the gas sponsorship status.

## Releases

### Testnet

No release yet

### Mainnet

No release yet
